All right, great, so let's move on then.
Woo, we're going on to
the second challenge.
We're going on to backgrounds and
overflow, okay?
So this is another crazy one.
And I think, well, let's see.
Let me show it to you this way.
Instead of showing you the screenshots,
Let's just start here.
And let's go to Full Page View.
Okay, so
here's the way this one is gonna work.
So when we're at small screen sizes,
we're going to have a scroll bar here.
And we can scroll over and
see all of the various kinds of images
that we have here in place, okay?
And I will give you a little hint, this
is a standard browser scroll bar, okay?
Cuz there's no JavaScript in this.
Obviously, one of the things that you
could do to take this to the next level is
put in some JavaScript and
give it some arrows and
make it a little nicer looking, but
this is just a horizontal scroll bar here.
And then when we get to a larger size,
Now we got rid of all
those images somehow.
We have our numbers here.
We have a picture.
And we have some text and so
forth over here on the side.
And when we get to the even larger
size here, Look at that image.
Notice how that image moves, right?
So this is what we're gonna see
here at larger screen sizes.
So let's talk about it,
What do you see here in the mobile view?
Anybody wanna talk about what you see here
in the mobile view of things you have to
consider?
>> Everything in the single column,
all stacked.
But if it is over the display, the scroll
bar is automatically up here and
then we scroll and see the items
>> And
we're gonna have scroll to see the items,
yeah.
So somehow, we have to set all of
those items up individually and
then we have to make them go such
that we can scroll side to side.
Make sense?
What styles can we reuse
that we already have?
>> fancy-text.
Yeah, so there, that's already done.
We just apply fancy-text there.
What is worrying you at this point?
What are you looking at and going,
my gosh, I have no idea how to do that?
>> Make sure the scroll bar shows up.
>> Make sure the scroll bar shows up,
yeah?
>> I'm interested,
cuz I've run into this problem before,
the problem of actually ensuring
that the last thing that's visible
on your screen isn't completely visible so
the user is encouraged to scroll.
So I'm wondering if there's something in
the code that determines that it will
actually spill over,
force it to spill over.
>> Okay, I think if you just
make things big enough,
you'll find that it will magically do
that, cuz this is for tiny screens.
If we were doing this on desktop,
I would completely understand
what you're talking about, but
this is a small enough screen that I think
it's gonna it's gonna happen for you.
You won't have to worry too
much about that, other points?
>> See the paragraphs is not.
>> Yeah, we had a paragraph of information
somewhere which is no longer here.
So we've got things appearing and
disappearing, right?
Okay, let's take a look at the tablet one.
Talking about things that are appearing
and disappearing, what's going on?
>> Paragraph text appears,
but only for the main one.
>> Only for the first one,
what else happened?
>> Justify to the end of the number.
While the image in there
is justified to the header.
>> Yeah, so
we're gonna have something going on here.
Yeah, what else?
>> Extra content is in a separate section,
or
maybe section below the main content
instead of scrolling to the side.
>> Yeah, we got that going on.
Nobody's mentioning this image here,
what happened to it?
>> I assume it's available with
the extra content when you click on
the header for that.
>> Yeah, so we're just doing HTML and CSS.
So yeah, in JavaScript, you could make
things appear and disappear on click.
We don't have an onclick in CSS,
that's not a thing.
So you don't have to worry about that, but
somehow you're gonna have to hide
those images, right, in here, okay?
And then for our max-width.
>> Very similar to the last one, except
moving that bottom content to a side.
>> Move the bottom content to the side,
right?
Take that and
now we're gonna put it next to that
information to take up more
room horizontally, okay?
So this is kinda crazy.
So here's a couple of
things to think about.
So usually when working with CSS layouts,
we have flexible widths on each cell.
Units like percents or rems or
fr, that fraction unit or vw,
does it ever make sense to use
a fixed width in a layout?
>> In this case, yes.
>> Look at those numbers,
what do you think about those numbers?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah,
they kinda all have the same widths,
don't they?
They're always a skinny width,
not really a fraction.
So you may wanna play around with some
another units of measure for those.
And you might also wanna
have a range of widths.
Sometimes things can get too wide, okay?
So there's some hints and spoilers
here if you wanna take a look at them.
And I'll just point out that I've given
you some next level ideas, right?
How could you load the content?
You need to achieve each layout at each
breakpoint rather than loading it all and
turning it on and off,
which is what we're going to do here.
And of course, you could also think about
some JavaScript to make that mobile
version look a little bit nicer too
if you wanted to go next level, but
I won't go over that.
So we now talked about these designs and
looked at them and thought about them,
what's our next step?
>> HTML.
>> Semantic HTML.
So that is the next thing
you're going to do.
Here's your starting CodePen.
I've given you, once again,
here's your base styles that we
wrote in our first exercise.
You'll see here, there's all of the text,
and I've given you the images as well.
How will you mark these up?
So go on ahead and
see if you can mark these up.
All right, so let's take a look at
the HTML and how we mark this up.
So everybody here in the room,
how did we start?
>> The header.
>> We started with the header.
Yay, looks kind of familiar.
Header is up here at the start,
slash header at the end, okay?
And what did we do in
between the header tags?
>> h1.
>> h1, that's definitely an h1.
And what else?
>> We have a span for the fancy-text.
>> Span for
the fancy-text around the word five.
So span class="fancy-text", Five.
Awesome.
Okay, good.
All right, so then there's the rest of it.
[LAUGH] Okay, so what do you guys think?
I'm gonna focus on just marking up
one card because all the rest of them
are gonna be exactly the same, make sense?
Okay, so clearly,
we need to have a bunch of cards, right?
How did you mark up those cards?
>> First, by separating it out and
putting it all in a div.
>> So you put a div here?
>> Yeah, around the outside of things.
>> Okay, and
did you give a class to that or anything?
>> I actually didn't yet, but I assume.
>> Okay.
>> There should be something, because
that would determine its own boundaries
>> Great, so
you called this div with a class of
wrapper that started all those things.
And then down at the very end,
you put in a slash div, right?
>> You're getting ahead of me.
That was smarter.
No, I was thinking of a wrapper for
each individual card.
But you're right, we do need something for
all of them to be put into.
>> Okay, so we need both of those things.
We need one that goes around everything.
So there's our div with
a class of wrapper.
And then around each card,
we also need to have some kind of item.
And these are not,
they're kind of vaguely related, right?
Those are related, headline and
an image and a paragraph of text.
They're not syndicated, right?
They're not really stand-alone.
So my sense of this was that a div
is just fine here because it's
really not communicating
a whole lot of meaning.
This is kind of one of those patterns
that you might find on a news website,
that would be our top five articles today
are these five things, or whatever.
So I've just used a div
with a class of what?
Something super creative like card?
And that of course will end at each card.
So slash div around each of those cards.
What else did we know that was true?
>> We need to separate out the number 1,
the numeral 1 there.
>> We need to somehow separate this
number 1 from the heading, right?
And the purpose of that separation
is just to stick a class on it.
And if you put fancy-text here,
that would be fine.
Slash div, something like that.
>> Maybe eventually.
>> Maybe eventually, or
what I actually did was I put
in a class here of number,
because it's a number.
[LAUGH] And we're gonna use
something like fancy-text, but
there's some other styling
that goes with that, okay?
And then after Coffee Shops Boost
Creativity, what do we say?
Heading 2, maybe.
Remember, if it doesn't
look exactly as you want,
you can always change that later
by adding a class to it, but
the markup is an h2 cuz we have
an h1 at the start of the page.
So these should be h2s.
We'll probably wind up putting
some kind of div around the image,
class of card-image, right?
Often, that's needed for styling purposes.
And then we have our
paragraph of information.
And then we have our slash div.
So if you format HTML there,
it'll do all the indents for
you right here inside of CodePen.
Just a little drop-down window here,
it'll do that for you.
Okay, so that is the pattern here for
the card.
And you would continue that
pattern all the way down for
the remaining two, three, four and five.
It's gonna be exactly the same pattern,
but
it is going to be just repeated over and
over again.
Any questions on that?
>> Is there any advantage to using the,
sorry, I'm forgetting, but
the image thing where we
have the built-in caption.
I so apologize that I don't remember that
>> Figure.
>> Yeah, I mean, you could always
argue that maybe a figure makes
sense somewhere along the way.
You can certainly do that.
I tend to use figure when
I have a caption, and
I tend to use a div when I don't.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah.
>> Would you say this
paragraph fits like a caption.
I suppose by your choice
you'd say not really?
>> I'd say not really, because the article
titles Coffee Shops Boosts Creativity.
And then whether it's just enough noise or
the continuous stream of people,
studies show that coffee
shops boost creativity.
So that's the deck, the introduction.
>> Sure, sure.
>> And
there's probably a read more link in here,
even though I haven't put one in, yeah.